hey I'm Lea D'Amelio with Mahalo daily
if your latest jams don't sound so good
it may not be you it could be your
guitar strings so today we're at the
guitar center in West LA to learn how to
properly restring your guitar all right
I'm here now the Guitar Center in West
LA with guitar tech Brad Cahaba
literally bred we're going to tell us a
little bit about what people need to
know when they come in to buy strings
and want to restrain their own guitar so
that's the first thing they need to know
about strings okay first thing a lot of
people come in and store I'll ask them
what gauge strings they want to put on
your guitar a lot of people don't even
know what that means so what does it
mean what is gauge is the thickness of
your string so if you're kind of a newer
player you're going to want to go with a
lighter string like at 12 a point 12 is
a lighter string for an acoustic then
you got you know point 11s and then your
tens which are super light for acoustic
and on acoustic you have the option to
go with steel strings or nylon
steel strings or nylon strings nylon
strings for classical guitars think of
classical guitar and acoustic guitars
think of them as two different
instruments pretty much what's the main
difference between the different brands
of strings may nervous is coated and non
coated and the only thing with the
coated strings is they last about three
times as long as normal strings and it
it's smoother on the hands it creates
less fret noise when you're moving
how about buying strings for an electric
guitar what are you looking for then
electric guitar same question asking
more games they use most people do now
and it's just throwing throwing some
tens do you need any special tools
besides your hands to change the strings
you're going to need you should probably
get a winder string liners make the
whole process all-around easier
I'll just get a wheat up length it's a
three-in-one tool
got the clipper on the top the winder
and the thing to pop the pegs out okay
very string this thing let's go alright
so just start with the low e-string just
going to detune it this part you can do
by hand okay you don't have to do it all
the way just kind of loosen it up like
that take your string winder with this
the thing I was talking about before
with the groove thing in it take that
guy just come on down here put it in and
basically just pry it up and it will pop
out you just take it out sometimes they
get stuck down here just kind of wiggle
it fight it a bit you know you'll get it
I'll just cut it shut the damn string
right there and pull it out okay so I'm
going to show you how I put on strings
personally everyone has their own way of
doing it so you just kind of unravel
your string watch out I might shoot and
hitch in the face first you're going to
put the ball end in the hole and then
just grab your pin it's got a groove in
it you're just going to put it against
the string push down and kind of pull
the string up you feel it lock it and
feel it lock in and you just put the
string through so I'll put the string on
like that okay
next step take the excess just crank it
up there so you just take your tuner
just start lining up the string okay at
this point you're 90% there you just
want to cut off the excess while you
still can come in here cut off your
excess and throw it away so you're just
going to tune it up so we're now we're
to see we got to go all the way up to e
there we go there you go perfect eat
[Music]
a newly strong if you're really strong
acoustic beautiful for more information
go to Mahalo comm slash how to string in
acoustic guitar Brad thank you so much
for taking us through the process of
changing strings on several guitars yeah
not a problem some people learn some
things I think they will alright that's
it for Mahalo Daly I'm Lee and Emilio
we'll see you next time
[Music]
you